# 0.7.3

* You can choose a dedicated server install when choosing an install location in the SDK. Mods that are loaded via the SDK will also be detected properly by any connecting client even if the client uses the mod from mod.io. There is no automatic install of any missing mod that isn’t installed via mod.io though.
* We are retiring the Translation component in favor of the LocalTransform component introduced in ECS 1.0. The main motivation for this change is to improve performance, as the Translation and LocalTransform must currently be kept in sync by copying the values back and forth. The Translation component will still be available in the project in order not to break serialized worlds, but no runtime entities are expected to have this component. This is one of the most commonly used components, but the following steps made the upgrade process fairly pain-free when we upgraded our own code:
  * Use the following case-sensitive find-and-replace patterns. This took care of the vast majority of our usages.
    * \`Translation translation\` -> \`LocalTransform transform\`
    * \`translation.Value\` -> \`transform.Position\`
    * \`, translation) in\` -> \`, transform) in\`
    * \`\<Translation>\` -> \`\<LocalTransform>\`
    * \`typeof(Translation)\` -> \`typeof(LocalTransform)\`
  * Fix all resulting compiler errors. The most common cause is that the patterns don’t catch variable names in some cases.
  * Replace all usages of \`new Translation\` with calls to \`LocalTransform.FromPosition\`.
  * Find and replace any remaining usages of the Translation component.

Unity’s official ECS 1.0 upgrade guide might provide useful information on the new LocalTransform component: [https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.entities@1.0/manual/upgrade-guide.html#update-transforms-in-your-project](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.entities@1.0/manual/upgrade-guide.html#update-transforms-in-your-project).

* Completely removed the Rotation component, as rotation of entities is not used anywhere in Core Keeper. Setting the Rotation field on LocalTransform also has no effect.
* EntityMonoBehaviour is the base class for all of our graphical objects, and over the years it has grown to an unmanageable size as it has to support all our objects’ specific use cases. We are making a push to return to a more component-based approach. Our aim is to make it less daunting and error-prone to add new graphical objects to the game. For this update specifically, we have:
  * Added support for multiple IGraphicalObject components on the same object. All such components at the object root are picked up and have their methods invoked as appropriate.
  * Added separate interfaces for components that only provide spawn/despawn behavior. Prefer using these when possible to avoid the overhead of empty GraphicalUpdate methods being called each frame.
  * Added several new components that control aspects of graphical objects that were previously managed with settings on EntityMonoBehaviour. We encourage you to when possible use these components instead of the corresponding EntityMonoBehaviour settings. The old settings have not been removed, but they will not be developed further and may be removed at a future time. These components are listed below, for more information see their in-editor tooltips and how they are used on existing assets.\
    \`SpriteSkinFromPaintColor\`, \`SpriteGradientMapFromPaintColor\`, \`SpriteVariationFromEntityDirection\`, \`SpriteVariationFromEntityVariation\`, \`SpriteSkinFromEntityAndSeason\`, \`EnableEffectsForEntityVariation\`, \`OffsetFromEntityDirectionOrVariation\`
* The hierarchies of a lot of our graphical objects have also had an overhaul to improve performance. In most cases this means porting an older object to use our in-house sprite rendering solution (SpriteObject). Apart from this we have also done lots of small changes to increase performance in various ways, see the performance section of the 0.7.3 changelog for the Core Keeper application for more information on this.
